Chat GPT originally was entirely free
and the reason for that was that it was
intended to be a demo and we were going
to wind it down after a month.
>> We then realized that the demo went
viral and people loved the demo and it
was actually a product and but we
realized to be a product you can't take
the product down every time you're at
capacity. So we you ship subscriptions
simply because it could shape the
demand. It was a way of gracefully
turning users away when we had to turn
away someone. You know, you guys are at
900 million VT active users now, and
that growth has been incredible. The
next billion users, where they where are
they going to come from?
>> We've got about 10% of the world coming
to us now. 90% left to go, right?
There's so much more opportunity.
>> Well, Nick, so excited to have you here.
>> Thank you for having me, Peru. You've
had uh quite the journey from Germany to
the US for Brown.
>> That's true.
>> Most recently at Instacart delivering uh
groceries in 30 minutes to now
delivering AGI to billions. I'm sure
that was the plan all along.
>> Yeah, clearly total master plan.
>> Well, well, tell us about your journey.
What how did you get to OpenAI? I know
it's a fun fun story. And your your
three and a half years or so at OpenI,
how have they gone? The only through
light in how any sort of employment
decision has been entirely people based.
So I don't claim any credit for for uh
joining OpenAI um or predicting chat GPT
or anything like it. But um I uh um hit
up someone who I admire a lot who I got
got to know at Dropbox. um Joanne who uh
worked worked here at the time and she
uh I asked her to get off the Dolly 2
wait list and she told me I had an
interview if I wanted to get off the
wait list. So um I took the bait and got
totally nerd sniped in the process and
and here I am.
>> There you go. The Dolly 2 weight list
will get you.
>> It's a great recruiting tool.
>> Nice, nice, nice.
>> We should do more weight lists probably.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you know, the
big uh the big
super cycle we're in is is is Chad GPT.
Now, I assume over a billion users on
the monthly side, 900 million weekly
active users that recently reported up
from zero three and a half years ago. Uh
you could have, if I imagine what the
dashboard of Nick Turley looks like, it
could have users, it could have paying
subscribers, it could have daily active
users, it could have retention,
engagement. I mean, there's like 15
things, maybe all of them. What what is
your northstar? How do you how do you op
what are you optimizing for? Uh what is
Nick looking at in his daily dashboard?
>> It's it's funny, right? Because it's
such a young product. It's been to your
point three and a half years. And um
this kind of question, it kind of
changes as as as you evolve and you and
you grow up and you ask yourself, you
know, what are we really building here?
And uh to this day, right, then want to
build a super assistant that can
actually help people achieve their
goals.
>> And ultimately the thing we care about
is like is our product doing that? Is it
actually helping you do the thing that
you're, you know, um coming to the
product to do? And it's so different for
different people, right? Some people um
are are trying to get healthy, other
people are trying to start a company,
>> um um learn a new topic, um
>> do their taxes. There's all these
different things that you might be
doing. Um, and the true measure of
success is whether or not that we're
helping you do that. And um, obviously
we look at WAU in particular because,
you know, we want to know if you're
coming back to the product. We look at
retention. Um, but we, you know, we we
look at, um, all kinds of stuff in
aggregate because really there isn't
like this one single thing that you can
optimize for.
>> If you were to allocate a 100 units of
points
>> to these metrics, which metric can you
like distribute the 100 units across
these metrics in order of importance for
you right this second? It's a good
question. I I care a lot about long-term
retention and I would put all my points
there. Um because um I'm really proud of
the retention stats we have.
>> Huge,
>> but ultimately the sign of durable
values, whether or not people are coming
back in three months because that means
you're really solving their problems.
And
>> yeah,
>> I think things like revenue, they follow
from that. Um
>> yeah.
>> Um versus like, you know, trying to go
on those things directly. And we've
we've had a lot of success making very
principled decisions u on this stuff.
Like one good example is you GPD4 used
to be behind a pay pay wall because we
couldn't serve it to everyone and then
we had GPD4 which was a total
breakthrough
>> in um in in our ability to inference it
and um
>> so we just gave it away for free and
that ended up being totally revenue
positive and retention positive because
it just provided access to the tech and
I think when you make your decisions
that way and you focus on the customer
>> you end up with a great product and
revenue obviously follows too.
>> Phenomenal.
>> Yeah. Well, it uh it shows up in the
numbers. You know, I I posted this chart
uh yesterday on the data that we have,
you know, from a third party. The
retention curves for chat GPD are
smiling. Look at that. Just like that.
And that is a rare that is a very rare
occurrence, you know, as as we know. And
um why why do you think like if you were
to give us a narrative on that smile
curve? What is the why do these smile
curves exist? What are you seeing in
Chad GPD that has people who have who
have maybe turned off for a couple of
weeks or months coming back and why are
they coming back?
>> Look, there isn't one single thing. You
know, the way you build a retentive
product is lots and lots of little
things and really trying to make it
better systematically. I will say that
you know with AI and in particular chat
GBT I found that it takes people some
time to really understand all the parts
of their life they can delegate right
and I think many users for that it's a
multi-month process for them to
understand how can this thing help me
and what are all the different ways
>> that um I could plug chatbt into my life
>> um and um but you know when I think
about some of the breakthroughs and
levers we've had um things like search
and personalization they they have
helped solve those user problems because
um you know search provides way more
daily value to you.
>> Um it used to be that chat was a pretty
worky product. You know we'd see usage
go down on the weekend. We usage you
know go down during the summer months
when a lot of people were off from work
>> and um
>> today you know we're we're mobile first.
The vast majority is mobile and we see
all these personal use cases and I think
search was a big investment that got us
there
>> and personalization makes chat so much
more relevant for you right because it
gets to know you over time. you get to
know it. Um and um those are two things
that have materially moved um the way
that you know people come back to the
product. But um there's lots more to do.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and you know, as mentioned, I don't
I'm not resting on our um retention
stats even though, um we're obviously
very proud.
>> Nice, nice, nice. Um and you know, the
other thing that I I got wrong about
Chad GPT was this is two two and a half
years ago. I was like, well, you know,
let's look at who's going to win this
consumer AI race. You typically these
consumer markets are winner or take most
winner or take all. Look at search.
Google has near 90% plus market share.
Three and a half, four trillion market
cap.
>> Mobile, same thing with Apple. Social,
same thing with Meta. I was like, well,
AI, Meta has all the distribution.
Google's got all the distribution.
They've got 34 billion users. Well, it
would be a flick of a switch for them to
roll out their AI. But I was wrong.
That's not what happened. Chad GPT turns
out uh you know you guys are at 900
million VT active users now and um that
growth has been incredible clearly
distribution was not enough right
>> so the same question for distribution
what are the levers for us that have
gotten us to the scale is it model
quality is it you know product quality
is it you know features is it the
experience or product improvements like
memory and personalization or search
like
>> same question like what would you say
drove historical
>> growth and and success
We've got about 10% of the world coming
to us now. 90% left to go, right? So
there's so much more opportunity to to
to re reach more people and introduce
them to the way that AI can can can
>> benefit them, right? But when I when I
look backwards and I only say that
because like the next billion users
might be very different in terms of like
how you um engage and reach and provide
value,
>> but when I look backward, it's been
roughly sort of
>> oneird one third one third between
sort of classic friction removal type of
work. Like one of our biggest um
um moments when you look at pure impact
um was you know removing the
authentication wall
>> and Sam will say I told you so because I
think that was his feedback from like
day one
>> u like can't you shouldn't have to log
into the chatbt but it's like stuff like
that that you do for any product and it
does matter some things never change
right
>> um and but you know and then you know
another third or so isort
>> you know are what I would sort of sort
core product investments and they're
really typically things that we've done
together between research and product.
So
>> search and personalization are really
good examples of that where we came
together and we figured out not just
UIUX evolution but also how to postrain
um these changes into the model and it
was really the moments when we came
together. Um um another recent example
is like we have these writing blocks
that render when you you know ask about
queries um where you're um you know
trying to write with the model
>> and like putting really good craft into
those experiences really matters and um
um you our users love it and then
>> another third of of the growth has been
just model improvements like step both
step changes like going from um GBD 3.5
back then to GPD4 then going from GPD4
behind a payw wall to O suddenly
available to everyone, right?
>> But a lot of it is also the iteration
that isn't splashy, that doesn't warrant
like, you know, a named release. You we
um I'm really excited about the updates
we just made um with 5.3, 5.4, etc.
>> Because um that is when we like take a
lot of user feedback and we you know,
methodically address it and obviously
that shows up um
>> in our retention as well. So sort of one
third one third one third between
classic um friction removal um and
access
>> um core product investments and then
pure model improvements.
>> And so the question that I've really
been waiting to ask you is how do we get
the next billion
>> and and you know talk about that a
little bit. There's a lot of it it seems
like at least from the outside fog of
war. If I was a consumer today in the
market to pick my super assistant, um
you would have a couple of great
options, you know, uh plot out there,
they're having some great traction last
couple of weeks.
>> Um Gemini mega distribution, Uber
distribution, um and us by the by the by
the leading product today, at least in
user numbers, the next billion users,
where they where they going to come
from? First of all, just to
contextualize that goal. You we care
about
um two things at the end of the day.
Obviously, reaching more people is
really important. It's the direct
manifestation of our mission um to the
world where you the more people we can
introduce the benefits of AI uh the
better that is. Um but we're also really
excited to go deeper. Um and that means
taking the same billion users that find
value in chat GPD today. Um and actually
providing more meaningful value in their
world like actually helping them achieve
their goals. not just answering
questions, right?
>> Um, so I'll talk about how we get to
more scale, but I think it's important
to remember that, you know, the way this
technology is evolving is, you know,
we're going to go beyond pure chat bots
um pretty fast.
>> Exciting. Um I think on on scale you
know it's shocked me how many people
have found value in chatbt as it works
today because I don't think delegation
is a natural skill for most
>> and chatbt is a pretty
it's a it's it's a power tool right you
come to it doesn't tell you what it's
for you kind of have to discover it on
your own and you have to use it and then
you'll learn about this prompt that was
really cool and then maybe you you're on
Twitter and you learn about another one
or you're on Instagram and you learn
another But the product it's it's like a
raw appliance. And I think to you know
on one thing we really need to nail as
we you know reach the next set of users
>> is a product that has a bit more of an
affordance.
>> U because I think for most people
they're very very busy.
>> Um and they everyone I think in the
world has intelligence constrained
problems like problems that more
intelligence could help with
>> but you need to frame that to people.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And I still feel like we're a little bit
too much like a computer terminal and it
needs to feel more like software like or
um you know an operating system of
software,
>> right?
>> Um so that's one thing. Um another thing
um that gets at the same constraint is
is beginning to be proactive.
>> Um in a world where a lot of folks are,
you know, too busy to delegate their
problems to AI or don't quite know where
to start, I think being able to help you
proactively is really really important
as well.
Um, but you know, I think all these are
are product evolutions that we could
make on on top of the current tech. And
the thing that gets me particularly
excited is productizing our next
generation tech or reasoning models
because the truth is when you look at
reasoning and chatb today.
>> It's relevant to a very small group of
people. It's relevant for the people who
are trying to get the most out of chat
GPT.
>> But I fundamentally believe that
reasoning it's transformative. And if
you can figure out how to productize
reasoning in a way that works on
people's behalf without them even
knowing
>> um and that looks very much like you
know
>> the model doing long horizon tasks on
your behalf. It doesn't mean you
encounter the concept. It just means
it's benefiting you right.
>> Um so there's so much work to do and and
you know
>> the the the product certainly has to
evolve to to be relevant for for for
this kind of scale.
>> Yeah. One of the one of the things that
I've been hoping for a while and you
know Brad made a bet two years ago um
when can Chad GBD help me take actions.
>> Can Chad Guby help me be more proactive
>> and um I think his bet expired end of
last year. So he's he's we're very
curious.
>> When is that coming? And I'll frame that
for you because you know with with with
with search engines in Google you know
two decades ago you'd have gotten the 10
blue links. You could have spent an hour
getting the answer. you can now get the
answer instantly with chat GPT.
[clears throat]
>> Uh and it feels like the next step is is
actions
>> 100%.
>> And it feels like the next step is you
know with you know pulse is a is a great
proactive product.
>> Um that that that feels you know it's I
have a pulse that runs weekly
>> but what I would really like is like hey
Nick spoke about something and just just
find me make sure I know that Nick spoke
about this or or like hey this XYZ thing
happened that I cared about a lot.
>> Um when is when is one of that going to
get proactive? um what is the modality
going to look like?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So there's there's two
concepts I think. Um there there's chat
should be doing stuff rather than just
answering
>> and then there's chat should be being
proactive and I think when you put them
together you start feeling like it feels
like a super assistant. Um because I
think these things compound
>> um
>> on the action taking piece you strictly
speaking in chat
can do stuff today. Um the action space
is just very limited, right? It can
search the web, which means it can use
you search tool or browser in the same
way that a human would.
>> Um it can make images. It can do all the
all these things, right? But it doesn't
have clearly doesn't have the same
action space that a human with a
computer would have. And that is what we
aim to build. Um
>> and if you timing is everything on these
bets, right? And I don't pretend to be
great at timing either. U you look at
past attempts that we've made like the
chatbt agent for example,
>> which kind of has capabilities like
this. um it was just slightly too early.
The models weren't quite good enough to
hit real escape velocity. And the
problem is if you don't have escape
velocity is that users don't learn to
trust it. They don't even try.
>> So when you look at a lot of things
people were doing in the original
version of chatb agent, it was the
things that happened to work like
migrating your uh uh file server into
the cloud or something like that. Useful
stuff but very niche.
>> Yeah. Um and um as this stuff gets
better um we just have to get it to a
point where people try to use it for
real meaningful problems in their life
because then we can start hill climbing
and this has been the magic of chatbt
where chatbt upon launch was good enough
to get real attempts at use cases even
if they didn't initially work like chat
was a pretty bad writer originally it
was a bad software engineer but people
tried and got enough value out of it
that we could take those use cases and
make them great
>> and I do think we're about to get to
that point with general purpose agents
where
>> it works well enough that you get at
least partial credit
>> and because you're getting partial
credit you get really good tasks back
and then the magic begins because um you
know once you have
>> a a set of use cases that you can um
climb the hill on we can make them
awesome. So on task I think we're close
but I think even people inside of open
would have had a hard time predicting
exactly when this gets good. Um we've
been excited about it for a while
>> on um proactivity.
>> Um Pulse was a really great first step
because
>> what we wanted to build was a form
factor where you're not prompting the
model like the model's prompting you.
>> Um for the reasons that I described
earlier, which is, you know, it's so
hard for people to delegate and to
figure out what their problems are. What
if the eye understood your your goals
and the things you're interested in and
just could start being proactive on your
behalf?
um pulse is limited in the value it can
provide for you because it's not
connected to your life and it can't take
action. So, it's producing information
for you
>> and people love that. You know, I love
that. I've got mine running, too.
>> But I think the magic begins when you
have actions and proactivity because
then it can begin speculatively
actually, you know, um detecting, hey,
you just landed where you were supposed
to go. Um you know, I'm I'm I'm going to
call a cab for you. or
>> um you know if you're at work it's like
hey I proactively ran this analysis
because I saw your metrics dropped
>> um so I think these things really
compound and we need to nail multiple of
the building blocks to really achieve
the transformation um and the form
factor that we hope for
>> as you were answering those questions I
now have uh 15 more questions for you
[laughter] so so so I hope you have 15
more minutes but um
>> okay one by one we'll start with what
you said on actions and tasks
>> got it on timing tough to Okay. But is
there a shape or ordinality of tasks and
or or agents that that you think, hey,
this is the kind of thing that's likely
to come first whenever it does?
>> I mean, the thing that's already come
first is the uh domain specific agents,
right? If you look at what's happening
in in code,
>> we're we're we're fully there.
>> You know, it's it's mindbending, but
we've got so many engineers um who who
don't open their IDE like ever. And
right
>> for me as someone who you know used to
code and then unfortunately got very
very busy it's brought me back in the
game.
>> So um codeex and you know products like
it is clearly a product that has escape
velocity where people are absolutely
using it for all kinds of agentic work
and if you just take what people are
doing
>> and make it work even better
>> you kind of get all the way there. Um,
you know, I won't be surprised if you
see this happen for other forms of sort
of quantitative knowledge work just
because it happens to have the
properties that code has. It's testable.
You know, if it worked or not,
>> um, it's, you know, very RL friendly.
>> Um,
>> but um, uh, the the domain specific ones
already work. I think the thing
everyone's working for is, you know,
general purpose agents that just
>> kind of work for anything.
>> Yeah. And I you know that's why I think
you need to to win a consumer because
it's very hard to train people into like
okay
>> um it can work like deep research was a
consumer product and it's really was our
first agentic
>> uh thing out there
>> um but I think what consumers want is I
can just ask it anything and we'll do
what
>> um what needs to be done without any
sort of retraining and um
>> we'll get there just a matter of time
>> at least a psychological goal is uh
flight bookings bookings restaurant
bookings, shopping,
>> all this stuff. Um there are so many
consumer problems and those are just the
type of things that you would kick off,
right?
>> Yeah.
>> The minute you have productivity,
there's there's things you don't even
think of as agentic tasks.
>> Um like you're trying to get in shape.
You don't think of that as a task you
would delegate.
>> Um unless you have a trainer, in which
case you do, but most people don't,
right? But if the EI knew that, it could
totally start working in the background
for you over very long periods of time
and and getting you, you know, um,
here's your fitness plan. Okay, I
actually signed you up for this thing.
You could imagine it being quite helpful
if it's aligned with your with your
long-term interest.
>> You're going to give Ozanic a run for
the money. [laughter]
>> We got to be careful what businesses we
get into, but uh, hopefully we can help.
>> That'll be great. Cannot wait. Cannot
wait. Uh the second thing you said was
um you know pro proactive users and that
might require us to go beyond chat bots.
>> What's an example of a modality that
might take chat GPD beyond a chatbot?
>> So chat will always be close to my
heart. It's the way we grew up. Um, and
it's an important modality to stay like
I I I think
>> it's less about chat and more about
natural language to me where you know
the fact that you can express yourself
to the machine in ways that are very
natural to you
>> whether or not that's text whether or
not that's voice whether or not that is
you know um structured UI that is
rendered by the model
>> that is just very very powerful and
that's here to stay but
>> u I think the thing
>> SA server
>> that's right uh uh for those that don't
know that's the name of our codebase um
short for super assistant server Um
because you know it's proof that this
was always the vision and is always the
vision. Um but uh you know the the the
thing that that'll change I think is
that chat is a great way of expressing
your intent. It's a good way of
communicating with the machine but it's
not a great output. Um where in many
cases what you want back is an artifact
like here's your your your you know plan
for your trip. Here is the analysis.
>> Here is um you know an outcome that I
delivered for you. you know, I just made
you five bucks.
>> Like, this is what I want my AI doing
for me, right? Yeah, totally. I mean,
this is what people care about, right?
And and and and I think chat will always
be there as the way that you sort of
disambiguate your intent and you kick
off the task,
>> but I don't think it's necessarily the
the the final deliverable. And I think
that's that's that's the way in which we
can evolve. So hopefully that's a very
graceful transition because I'm very
lucky and it's hard earned,
>> you know, to to have a billion people
coming to you weekly for a thing that
they love.
>> Yeah. But I think it's a great jumping
off point because we have so much
unsatisfied intent from people where
they're trying clearly trying to do
something and chat is helpful enough
>> but it could be so much more helpful. Um
and I think that's where we evolve.
>> Yeah. And you must be sitting on so much
of this data where people are showing up
to chat and attempting as you said uh
three years ago they were at least
making the attempt.
>> Yeah.
>> So you might have at least the frequency
histogram of like hey here are all the
things that people want to achieve with
us. We do uh we have like really awesome
you know um classifiers that run
automatically. It's fully privacy
preserving but gives us a sense of you
know what use cases people have
>> and it's important right because when
you make a new model you make a model
update you want to know what use cases
just got better what use cases got
worse.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and that's not always always trivial
to figure out unless you have really
good analytics on the system. But so
much of my learning is actually
qualitative where I will just you know I
have a habit of reaching out to a fairly
random set of users to just figure out
what they're doing
>> and I've never worked on a product where
three and a half years later you're
still learning every time because
usually by that time you know what the
use cases are that your product can you
know deliver on
>> but our tech is so unusual in the fact
that I keep learning about something
crazy I didn't know was possible.
>> Wow that's awesome. But basically a
billion users, I suspect a small
fraction of them are power users
>> who are uh getting maybe thousands maybe
maybe maybe tens of thousands of of of
value on on their $200 subscription.
>> Yeah.
>> Um the vast majority is is you know
middle of the pack and then and and a
few call it casual users who are you
know start using Chad GPD as search
maybe or or or teach me about AI or or
help me with my homework. Um what is
your focus like maybe in those
constituents power users, casual users
and and early users or however you frame
it, what is our focus on for each of
those three factions?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, first of all, I feel
accountable to our entire user base. In
fact, our non-users too because you
products like like Chachet can have real
externalities on on all humans.
>> Yeah. But when I think about sort of the
way we build,
it's really useful to imagine the
extremes. Um, one extreme being a user
who doesn't care about AI at all.
>> Um, who has a busy life. Um, and um, um,
needs to be convinced of, you know, the
value that we can provide because that
forces you to really nail the interface
and to expose the capabilities uh, that
are hidden in the model in a way that
people can actually gro. And then the
other useful extreme is you know um our
our power user base because power users
are the users who teach us what's
possible. Um
>> um it's actually impossible for us to do
all the product discovery
um on our own
>> simply by because of how empirical
>> this technology is um and how much you
actually learn post launch.
>> So building you know um for each of
those extremes can be valuable. Uh but
our user base is incredibly diverse and
um people have so many different use
cases and this is why you know I like to
look look at all kinds of different
segmentations not just frequency but
also you know what use cases are you
coming to us for. Um
>> but um definitely huge variety in the HP
user base.
>> Yeah
>> I look up to Mac OS for example as an
example where it really works for people
who don't understand technology at all.
it's entirely magical but if you are a
power user you've got terminal you got
settings you configure almost anything
in Mac OS
>> and it's really beautifully done where
the complexity is progressively
disclosed
>> so um you can interact with it and love
love the simplicity of it all but you
can also got all the knobs and
developers love it right
>> and so I think this is kind of the
inspiration for how we want to be in
chatbt that doesn't mean we always live
up to it but um it means that building
for powers is extremely important
>> and you know that's not just a property
that I'm think is sort of aesthetically
exciting. It's also really important in
AI because it's the power users who show
you what's possible.
>> They are actually doing the product
discovery
>> because it would be impossible for us
with such an empirical tech to do all
the product discovery on our own.
>> So the type of user who subscribes to
Chad GPD Pro who used codeex before it
quite worked
>> who is now the strongest advocate of of
cool tools tokens and teaching us what's
what's possible. um that is an
incredible valuable incredibly valuable
member of the community
>> and it might not show up in your you
know um weekly active users as just one
number right um but this is exactly why
there isn't like a single north star
>> and you really need to need need to take
these different segments very seriously
so um I love building for power users
>> um
>> and uh you know you you asked on you
know token consumption etc it's so
fascinating to see there's people who
get incredible value um out of these
products and u watching what they do is
very informative.
>> Okay. So, so we're very focused on the
entire user base. Um learn a lot from
the power users. Um
>> you know the other thing I might say is
the power users right now are getting um
>> a lot of value almost too much value
>> and a lot of
>> no such thing.
>> No such thing. the the the analog that
is most common is the Uber and Lyft of
the 2015 era,
>> right?
>> And you know, it took it took a while,
but I know you were thinking about it a
lot. I know you guys are thinking about
pricing quite a bit.
>> Yeah.
>> Um maybe tell us a little bit about
pricing. Um
>> you know, right now pricing is pretty
simple. uh is there a is there a path
for for for folks who are getting a lot
of great value to price that product
differently and and and you know meet
them where they are and and and and and
the other way on the other side
>> I mean pricing is there's no world in
which pricing doesn't significantly
evolve when
>> the technology is changing this quickly
right chat GPT originally was entirely
free and the reason for that was that it
was intended to be a demo
>> and we were going to wind it down after
a month
>> we then realized that the demo went
viral And people loved the demo and it
was actually a product and but we
realized to be a product you can't take
the product down every time you're at
capacity. So we you know ship
subscriptions simply because it could
shape the demand. It
>> was a way of gracefully turning users
away when we had to turn away someone
and it felt like the fairest and most
equitable way of doing so is saying hey
you know if you really need this product
pay a subscription fee and you got it.
Then we figured out how to make the
product stable and we had the choice of
do we keep the subscription thing or do
we go back to free and we realized we
had consistently more tech that we
couldn't scale. GPD4 being the first
example because we had way too many free
users to serve GPD4 and we put it behind
the plus plan. And so, you know, the way
we stumbled into subscriptions was was
sort of accidental by trying to just
solve for the user. Um, and it felt like
the right way at the time um to to
provide maximal access to our to to to
our tech. Um,
since then we've had so many other
breakthroughs including test time
compute where you can scale up
>> um um intelligence
>> um um kind of um as much as you want.
Yeah,
>> more or less. And um you know, it took
us, you know, in the entire industry a
little bit of time to turn that into
product value, but we're here now where,
you know, our our our our
power users want to use more and more
and more intelligence. And you it's
possible that, you know, in in the
current era having unlimited plan is
like having unlimited electricity plan.
You know, it just doesn't make sense
because like, you know, people may need
a lot a lot of electricity and they're
getting a lot of value out of that.
There's a reason you can't buy that,
right? So, um, obviously I want to be
really thoughtful about the way that we
evolve our our plans and SKs and
subscriptions, but you would be
incredibly sub, you know, surprised if
it didn't change given the magnitude and
profoundness of of the technical
breakthroughs that we've had and the
product breakthroughs that follow.
>> Yeah. Um, and you know, relatedly, so so
I I imagine you're going to have
something for the power users.
>> Mhm.
>> Um, what about the other side? How do we
get um the casual users into the into
the wheel and and still uh monetize
them?
>> As mentioned, you know, our our business
model is will evolve and the northstar
is access, right? We we we would like to
pick a um way of of of of you providing
an off we want to pro provide an
offering that maximizes um the number of
people can who can access our most
powerful tools. I think for the longest
time that has been subscriptions.
>> Um, subscriptions have the downside of
the fact that, you know, in many markets
people don't
>> have credit cards or they don't use
credit cards to subscribe to software.
Um, and we're interested uh in other
ways that can maximize access of of the
tech. Um,
>> our ads pilots are in that spirit. You
know, we we really view it as a tool of
bringing chatt and our intelligence most
broadly
>> to anyone around the world. M
>> um and it is an example of how we
constantly need to evolve and figure out
the best way to to you know bring the
demand in line with what we are able to
offer.
>> Makes sense. Makes sense. You know the
ads the ads piece is um is is has been a
tricky one because you know Sam has
historically expressed reluctance about
ads and um
>> you know we've got to maintain a lot of
trust um with while delivering that. So,
um, I guess what changed?
>> I think we've talked about this several
times in my my history at OpenAI, and
every time it came up, we said if if we
were to do ads, we'd have to be really
thoughtful about the way we do it. Um,
so the first thing we did, you know,
starting, you know, end of last year was
to really engage the company on if we
put ads in chat GPT, how should we
approach it? What should the principles
weigh? what be how do you preserve the
things that are magical about chat GBT
while getting the benefits of ads which
you know is is is our ability to bring
>> um our most advanced tech to to to
anyone um regardless of their ability to
pay
>> and um I really love where we ended up
on the principal side
>> on the experience side
>> um we're very very early but on the
principal side I feel really proud
because you know it's it's very
important that the answer of chatbt be
independent as an example
>> respecting user privacy is very
important and there's a lot to learn um
from you know the way that tech has
evolved over the last few years
>> um or really last decade um
>> um and I I like that the principles are
out there before we've even really
gotten started um like we're very early
with our pilots
>> um you know it it's kind of interesting
I was obviously very anxiously and
eagerly looking at um our support um
inbounds and data and um the most common
inquiry about ads is not you know how do
disable ads or turn off ads, but it's
like how do I run an ad?
>> Um because the entire ecosystem is
really excited to be part of the story
and to figure out a way to talk to chatb
users. So,
>> um there's a lot more to come. Um but I
I I'm I'm very eager to get this right.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure you guys will. Um
switching gears, Nick, um something you
and I have spoken about a little bit is,
you know, distribution and partnerships.
Uh there's a couple of big partnerships
last year. Um Apple Reliance with with
Gemini, those are two big user bases,
right? A lot of India, a lot of the iOS
users. Um talk tell us a little bit how
you think about partnerships for Chad
GPT to to to meet the meet the user
base. Um and maybe specifically on those
two as well.
Look, um I think partnerships are a
great way to to bring two two two two
products together and to you know
>> um expose
um something like chatt to um people who
might not other otherwise have
encountered it.
>> Um the thing that I care about most when
considering something um like a
partnership is what is the what is the
user experience and can we make it
amazing? Um because at the end of the
day um when you look at um what's going
on in the market um you can get users to
click on things, you can get them to tap
any sort of product um especially if it
looks like a product they recognize etc.
>> Um but if the experience isn't truly
awesome um you people will churn or they
will you know at least not retain in the
way that you know we've been lucky to
retain them on chatbt. So for that
reason you know I'm super interested in
in paths like that. Um but it needs to
be great. Uh it needs to acrue to the
user. Um we are very lucky to have um a
great brand and a recognizable product
um for many many folks and I want to
make sure that anything we do is
accretive to um um to all that.
>> Nick, you are uh you're a master of
trade-offs. You must be making a lot of
trade-offs right now.
>> Uh um tell us about tell us about some
of the trade-offs you're making. tell us
about, you know, an a trade-off that you
might be making that people don't
appreciate uh from the outside.
>> There are a lot of trade-offs um indeed
and um for different reasons, right? Um
um the what I encounter a lot is trading
off
delivering on the people on on the use
cases that exist in the product today
and making them better versus
productizing you know step change
technology that's going to generate a
whole another set of use cases
>> because when you think about how chatb
came to be it was a totally open-ended
product. It was basically a user
experience around a technical
breakthrough.
>> And we couldn't have told you all the
ways that people find it valuable,
>> but putting it out there was really
important because it allowed us us to
discover and the world to discover what
we can do.
>> And then postg
um we can obviously very systematically
go and improve on the things that people
actually want to use it for. And when
you're at a company in this moment where
you both have such amazing traction with
what exists today and the most
mind-bending breakthroughs on the
research side, the balance you have to
strike is making the core product you
have better today with all the things
that matter, latency, um reliability, um
making the use cases really great that
people come to
>> with um you know providing access to to
the step change um And um uh you we try
to get the balance right, but we're a
small team and we don't always get it
right. And for that reason, it's one of
the most difficult um trade-offs that I
have to deal with.
>> Nick, I imagine one of the hardest
trade-offs you guys make here is those
uh GPUs that are melting between chat
GPT, between codecs research. Uh how do
you guys uh allocate the GPUs?
>> That is a very good question. Um and
I'll let you know when I figure it out.
Just kidding. you know, we we've gotten
we've gotten a lot better at this. Um, I
really hope, by the way, to be at a
point one day, and I've yet to reach
that point, where
>> we don't have to face this trade-off
because it's really painful to have real
user demand
>> uh for products that you can't serve.
>> Um, like you know, if if you only ever
worked in software, that's entirely
unusual dynamic, right? Where you just,
you know, or you were limited by this
zero sum resource out there.
>> Um,
>> the marketplaces have it. Um um but you
know I think pure software doesn't
doesn't really have the dynamic right.
>> Yeah.
>> So um you one thing we try to do
obviously we prioritize our existing
users um first we want to provide a fast
reliable product um and that is critical
and table stakes.
>> Then when you look at new capabilities
the sort of na naive
>> u business school thing to do would be
to probably you know look at revenue
incremental revenue per GPU or something
like that. Yeah,
>> but this is where it's more an art than
a science because we often have new
breakthrough capabilities that are
entirely zero to one. Deep research was
one of those you know we couldn't have
told you is there going to be demand for
you know consumer demand for a research
product but if you don't productize it
uh um to find out
>> um you you will never know. So you know
this is where we have to be a little bit
thoughtful on how we balance you know um
things that are no-brainers that people
are really going to love with things
that are um brand new ideas. Then
obviously on the research side, there's
a reason that Mark has the job he has
because a big part of um his his job is
is figuring out what research to fund
and um um you know, obviously GPU is a
big part of that. So um very nuanced
topic that we're continuously getting
better at, but um for me the priority is
always on our users.
>> Yeah. The other takeaway that I had is
you can you don't have line of sight to
a time when you won't have that problem.
>> It's it's been so fascinating. Um
because
you know we obviously have been
incredibly lucky to uh encounter more
and more users who want to use our
technology but then the value that we're
able to provide for each user is going
up as well
>> and um you know GP or GPU consumption
you know it correlates pretty well with
that value
>> um and uh when you just look at token
consumption per user um especially in
the enterprise too which is you know um
a a massive opportunity
>> um you see um a lot of very GPU GPU
hungry hungry workflows and um um yes
demand keeps going up even as prices go
down.
>> This is a fascinating insight. People
used to think that humans were you know
you can't kind of make more humans well
on a takes nine months and then 19 years
[laughter]
but uh but you're saying well that's
actually more more less finite resource
than GPUs. Yeah, I mean on the human
side um you can hire uh more humans and
obviously we've been doing busy doing
that and bring the best talent um across
functions to OpenAI. Um in the world
with agents you can also get more
leverage per human um um you can make
your humans very effective um at their
job to do more
>> but GPUs are zero sum um and if you
don't have more GPUs you really have to
figure out how do you make very very
hard trades and hate making hard trades
for users.
>> Yeah.
um hence the desire to um um have more
GPUs. But uh it's it's useful to start
with the most zero sum trade-off when
you do your planning. So I think
starting working backwards from GPUs um
is usually pretty pretty good idea.
>> Yeah. You know, one of the we have all
these external data sources for charts
of users and usage and
>> act activity and retention all those
things. What we don't have is tokens per
user over time.
>> And I bet that chart is like a sweet
line going this way. I think internal is
pretty good. Our internal uh employees
is a pretty good indicator for what's
about to happen. And um yes um the
charts are are are mindboggling.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Fascinating. Uh okay,
a couple of quick ones on the present
before we go into the the landscape,
which is, you know, shopping. Uh you
know, we we just moved into a new house.
We took some photos and we were hoping
that all our furniture would magically
appear that Chad Gibbly helped us paint.
But
>> you know a lot of a lot of uh recent
updates on chat GPD shopping. Tell us
tell us about it. What are you thinking?
Yeah. On on shopping as Chad GP as a
shopping assistant. Shopping is one of
those use cases that exist organically
in chat GBT today and they work. Um you
can ask chat GPT about any purchase you
might be planning and get pretty
excellent advice. Uh but it's also one
of those cases where the experience that
exists in chat um today is it's not it's
not the perfect experience that you
would want um because shopping is very
visual for example. So you're going to
want to actually see products and images
and be able to compare and contrast not
just read you know walls of text.
>> Um people care about the sources of you
know um um um you know where can I learn
more about you know a given product etc.
Mhm.
>> Um and um so there's a lot of work to do
to make this discovery really really
good and allowing people to use chat as
a as a um as an assistant to find the
right product to buy.
>> Um and that's where our focus lies is
making that really great and making that
really great in a way that works for our
retail partners as well. Um because as I
mentioned earlier, there's huge appetite
from the ecosystem to be part of the the
ChachiBT journey. Um and um nailing the
discovery piece is has has been um the
most promising um focus here to date.
>> Nick on chat GPT you must see a breath
of information. You must see a breath of
uh use cases that people are doing with
Chad GPT and and tell us something about
you know what what does the world
underestimate about Chad GPT that you
have maybe been surprised by or or or
listener might be sub surprised by?
there's been a real change in the way
that people think of chat GPT
>> um over the last year or so where um
it's increasingly like a true thought
partner to people
>> um it's not just a thing that you know
answers your question um but it's a
thing that you can it's a sparring
partner that you can actually think
things through with
>> and u that shows up in all kinds of
domains ranging from life advice where
you know if you got a
>> relationship problem you can actually
get a lot of value chat is helping you
think through how to handle it and how
to talk to you your partner about it. um
all the way to a work setting where you
know you're you're working on um um an
analysis or you're like trying to figure
out how to frame something or you're you
know trying to build something and Chad
GPT really shows up as um as a um second
brain um of sorts and
>> uh I think that's qualitatively
different in terms of how the mental
model it occupies with people
>> and you see in the usage patterns and
the use cases that exist and I think the
more we nail things like you know
proactivity which we talked about
earlier in task etc. I think the more
it's going to feel like a teammate in
the workplace and like a super assistant
at home
>> and uh I think that's going to um
meaningfully change the the use cases
that people come for.
>> Yeah. You know, I've been the the most
highstakes thing I do with Chad GPT is
uh we have a we have a new baby
>> and when the baby's uh crying at 3 in
the morning,
>> Chad GPT,
>> what you know what's what's going on?
>> First of all, congrats. Second of all,
I've heard this from all parents in my
life. the chat has become indispensable
indispensable
>> as a thought partner and it makes sense
right if you have a really specific
scenario or you think it's a specific
scenario to you chat really comes
through and can um you know help you you
know um um build confidence and I think
that's such an empowering thing
>> right like and I imagine new parents
aren't always the most confident about
what is the right thing to do and if
chaty can make you um you know feel like
you you you are you have agency and
control and you know you know uh I think
I think it's really valuable.
>> Yeah, it's huge. Well, thank you for
making Chad GPT. It's literally getting
me an extra hour of sleep every day.
>> It took a village. But that is a great
metric. You know, that should be the
northstar metric is like incremental
hours of sleep.
>> That's a great one.
>> Incremental hours of sleep, incremental
hours of joy.
>> There you go.
>> I mean, you joke, but like we talk about
this a lot and um because spiritually
that that that is pretty close to what
we
>> hope we can do, right? is is is help you
re reach whatever you consider
self-actualization.
>> Yeah.
>> Whether that that's sleep or joy or any
other goal you might have.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, thank you for
thank you to the village.
>> We're going to switch gears and talk
about the landscape.
>> Sure.
>> There's a lot going on on the field. Um
you know, how would you frame Chad GPT's
differentiation
uh to to to people out there? Um there's
a lot of different products out there.
Look, it's the best time in history to
be a consumer of technology.
>> It is indeed.
>> Um because uh you got options and the
competition is intense. And I think
that's beautiful and it's actually good
for us too because
>> if you were to premortem why a company
like OpenAI does not achieve its
mission, it's probably focus because of
the sheer number of opportunities that
become possible when you approach AGI,
right? and having competition and and
options out there, I think um it it
forces us to focus on our customers too
um and on the things that really matter
which aren't always the most flashy
things, right? Sometimes it's latency,
reliability, um the quality of the user
experience.
>> So, uh I think it's a really good thing.
>> Yeah.
>> I think the biggest differentiation of
Jet Beauty is the team behind it
because, you know, we're not static,
right? anything we build will get copied
and you know sometimes in in in in ways
that are high craft sometimes in ways
that um you know are sort of um you know
um check boxes and um it's really
important to us that we evolve the
category um and um build the super
assistant that we've always imagined and
I think the way the reason that I have
confidence that that's possible at a
speed that outpaces you know um um
the the dynamic of being copied
is that we have an amazing team. Um, and
that we have an amazing team across
research and engineering and design and
all the different functions that it
takes to make something amazing. And I
think our unique ability has been to
bring those functions together to build
something that is sort of at the
intersection of useful and possible
>> right in that moment.
>> Um, so you know, my best answer for you
is we keep pushing forward and we hope
to be um um expanding what people think
of this product as. you know, last uh
winter we had obviously uh you know,
what was called Code Red. Google had a a
great model. Uh there was a lot of, you
know, talk about it. Mark Beni off
switching very vocally to to to to
Gemini and us delaying ads and health
agents and shopping. Basically hit pause
on everything, making tragedy better.
>> Talk talk to us about that moment. Um
both both about what led to that um and
what was happening in that moment.
>> Yeah. Um so first off code reds are a
tool we use um to create focus and as
you can imagine when you're in a place
like open and this is what makes us
special to um special to work here is is
is
>> there are so many different things
>> going on it's a research lab we are
pursuing many different ideas right
>> and there's been these moments where u
we've wanted the company to come
together um um to solve a problem
>> across boundaries you know no matter
what your project might have And
>> end of last year, we had one of those
moments where we felt like we we need to
show up for our users. We need to focus
the things focus on the basics. Um like
reliability, performance, um the way
that talking to the model feels um
making personalization really great. um
all these elements that you know our our
users care about and um I loved it um
because it was really an opportunity to
work with a bunch of folks who I don't
normally get to work with on making the
product great
>> and we just exited the code red um
>> which we knew we would um with the
launch of 5.3 which you know is is a
great model for the everyday user um
it's great to talk to and um 5.4 four
which is um workhorse if you're trying
to do real knowledge work
>> and um you know undoubtedly we're going
to continue to use the tool um um of a
code red whenever we want to create
focus um but u I'm excited because I
think um chat GBT um is is is in a great
spot
>> yeah so code red is over now
>> that's correct
>> it's not the new normal
>> um it's not the new normal uh we want it
to be a special thing but it is a tool I
I suspect we will continue to use
>> that's great that's great and Um maybe
tangibly if you were to point at how did
code red change chat GPT uh or maybe the
ops or or how the team operates.
>> The thing I try to get like you know
foster with the team is focus. Um so we
certainly more focused than we were six
months ago
>> on um you know the
>> uh the things we really want to nail and
some of those things are very behind the
scenes like
>> latency reliability
>> those kind of things.
>> Okay. And some of those things are like
very considered efforts like you
involving chatbt into the super
assistant and um
>> so focus is the main lasting artifact.
Um and as you imagine um
>> um it's hard to stay focused sometimes
when there's so much going on in the
space but um that's the hard job and you
asked me about trade-offs earlier.
>> Um um getting getting the team to focus
on the things that really matter to
users is certainly one of them. Um
that's always worth it.
>> Yeah. you know, in the back of my mind
as I ask you that question
>> is all the other founders that are that
are in the arena right now. Uh and and
just a reminder that hey, Code Red is a
tool for for for you. Wartime at balance
as we used to call it is is a tool.
>> Yeah, I think you know every company
does it differently um in terms of how
you how you get stuff done. Um, but I
think it it's really valuable to have
terminology that um, you know, means
something
>> um, that, you know, signals to people
it's okay to drop your other stuff and
it's okay to, you know, focus on this
thing together even if that wasn't your
original job.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, so I think it worked really well um,
at a place like OpenAI. Um, but I
imagine startups would have an
equivalent.
>> Yeah. You know, one of the things that
caught everybody's imagination uh, on
our team was uh, what Peter was doing at
OpenClaw.
>> Mhm.
>> Incredibly potent to put all the tools
together. Obviously, Peter's a great
builder. Congrats on on on bringing on
Peter to the team. Um, tell us a little
bit about what what what Peter's working
on and when when might the uh uh the
billions on Chad GPT have something to
to to see there.
>> Well, first of all, I'm very excited for
for Peter to be here. Um, I uh um um was
excited to have another German speaker
in the house. He's he's Austrian. I'm
German. So, we were we were um
exchanging Guten Morgans. Um but the uh
um yeah the the open claw is so
inspiring because um it brought to life
in in many ways um a vision that that
that you we'd had um um in different
forms know admittedly
>> um around this kind of AI that is fully
embodied that you know exists across
different UIs that can do stuff for you
that has state that has an interaction
pattern that feels a little bit more
like talking to a human, you know,
because you um you open cloud allows you
to you interact in a very very natural
way where you can you send many texts
back and forth and it's very curt and so
there's a lot of elements of of of of
OpenCloud that I think were very
clarifying to to folks across the
industry and um but the best you know I
I'm I'm super excited to just like learn
learn from Peter and bring in uh into
the company and figure out what we can
do together. So there there's there's a
lot more to come. All right. So, now on
to the most fun section. Rapid fire.
>> All right.
>> You ready?
>> Sure.
>> Well, we we'll start with my most my my
my favorite game, which is long short.
Uh, pick an idea, a startup, a business,
a product that you love, you think you
you're very bullish on. Yeah, I'm I'm if
I were starting a company today, I I I'm
really excited about these companies
that are going into companies and
getting extremely hands-on and doing
effect effectively professional services
>> um with AI because we've saturated all
the emails
>> um and you need to get proximate to the
problems. So um that's it's it's those
companies that that um I'm I'm paying
attention to.
>> Fascinating. So this is, you know, this
is an example. This would be like, hey,
you're going and either acquiring or or
or going inside an operating firm that
has scale and and and and and a humming
engine.
>> Exactly.
>> And making that a more efficient engine.
>> Yeah. Or or or just like, you know,
you're doing contracts for for for for
customers that have really hard problems
and you're actually going in and
committing to solving the problem.
>> Um outcomes.
>> Yeah. because like you know there
there's a reason I think that we made so
much progress on math and coding um but
not on many other domains because those
are domains we are approximate to we as
people who work in labs and
>> there's all kinds of other domains that
we are not as proximate to and if you
get proximate I think you can you know
build something transformative and I
think this is more important now
>> um precisely because um you know the
easy problems have been solved um the
obvious problems have been solved by the
models
>> credit where credit is due I think not
notebook spoke LM is awesome and
differentiated and helps me learn new
stuff. I think it's great.
>> It's so good.
>> Yeah,
>> it's so good.
>> I think this is the example of you can
innovate and you can build something um
totally different. It's awesome.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's so good.
Particularly for uh I found it for some
more technical uh uh learning to be a
very approachable way to to
>> totally learn. And it's really cool. I
feel like AI an underrated capability of
AI is to just transform things into a
different medium.
>> Mhm. And I think that's so important for
learning like we just la um um launched
these like dynamic um math blocks which
allow you to visually understand math
inside chatb learning is obviously a big
use case for us too
>> and I think just being able to transform
>> things from text to visual you know soon
from you know visual to video and like
all these different media is amazing
because people have such different ways
of processing information um and some
people are like auditory learners some
people are visual some people like
reading uh so I think that's really
magical Um and um a great great angle to
take.
>> Yeah. Amazing. Amazing. Amazing. Uh you
know, one of the things I think about a
lot is education and and and education
for for for kids now in school. Um the
world's changing so fast.
>> I'm not sure our education system is
changing that fast.
>> Yeah.
>> What advice would you have for for
students who are in school now? Um you
know, who might have to adapt faster
than the system around them might adapt?
It's a really good question and
something that I've thought a lot about
um myself
and you know the I think the most
important perma skill in this era is uh
curiosity I think because
>> if the machine can answer all your
questions you better have good
questions.
Um, and the only way to have good
questions, I think, is to
>> pursue the things you were actually
excited about from an early age and
throughout your entire life.
>> Yeah.
>> And, um, I reflect on this because the
only reason I'm here and working on this
stuff is because I thought it was neat
when I got, you know, nerd sniped in
>> um, in the interview process, right? And
it was like,
>> that's right.
>> This is so cool. And and so no matter
what you're doing, I think that's an
important skill is to be curious and
learn to stay curious. And I think I'm
confident that um if you foster that
skill um you will know how to adapt to
you know an evolving
>> landscape of tools and AIs and and jobs.
Um so that would be my advice.
>> Yeah, curiosity is has always been the
poorest scale. Our friend uh Bill Gurley
wrote about it in his book Running Down
a Dream. Um but curiosity have to check
that out.
>> Yeah. Um, what what is a job that uh
gets more valuable, not less, as uh AI
gets better as as AGI arrives?
>> Well, I think maybe the easy answer is
being an entrepreneur.
>> Um um because it's the best time to
build ever
>> in terms of like being able to
self-actualize your
>> Yeah.
>> your idea. Yeah,
>> but maybe maybe one that is maybe
nonobvious is I think writing actually
>> um is very important and it's not
because the AI can't write you know AI
will become amazing at writing just like
any other domains but because I think
the skill of writing
>> forces you to be very clear
>> of what you have to say
>> and even though prompt engineering is
obviously going to go away and has gone
away to much extent
>> the idea of expressing what you want
>> to a machine
>> requires you to be a pretty good writer
and a very precise um um writer. So I I
would say that that is a you know any
profession that involves very clear
writing and therefore thinking I think
is is is um um well set up. Yeah, 100%.
Honestly, I mean there this is the whole
thing about slot, right? There's so much
>> that's the other thing. I think there's
going to be a permanent need for high
quality, trusted, authoritative content
and tools like CHAP can help you
discover that content.
>> Yeah.
>> But I think the need for amazing um um
content is is is also here to stay.
>> Uh and final question, what has been
your AGI feel the AGI moment? When did
you feel it? I've had so many honestly.
Um, and it's
it's definitely not stopped. Um,
a few weeks or so after I joined Open
AI, GP24 had finished training
>> and I remember trying it out and it
actually it didn't impress me at all.
Um, nor anyone else that week because it
kind of didn't work. And it's because we
hadn't figured out how to post train it.
And uh I think seeing it go from
kind of wait is this really a thing or
was GPT3 kind of it to wow actually this
is an entire step change with what felt
to me at the time who didn't understand
much about AI at all as like just some
tweaks or some a little bit of final
stretch work
>> was profoundly humbling because you can
realize that you might it might not look
like we are close
>> to really powerful useful AI But we
probably are. Um,
>> and then the moment that, you know,
really, you know, there was two things
that GBD4 did that
felt like AGI to me. One is it could do
poetry and I didn't think it was
possible for AI model to do poetry. It
just kind of
>> fundamental philosophically, it just
didn't feel like
>> in scope
>> and then the other one was it could
produce code that actually worked and
compiled. And then my next moment where
I stared at the ceiling just in awe was
when I realized GPD4 could just simulate
an entire computer terminal um um like a
full computer with commands etc. And I'm
like, wait, how would this be imbued in
a in a in a language model? And there's
been so many moments since then,
honestly. Like reasoning was a moment.
One of the moments was when I think Mark
and I were uh uh giving a demo of
reasoning uh in front of the um whole
company. Um and um this was a moment
where we were still trying to kind of
find use cases that were hard enough for
the AI for the reasoning to, you know,
make it make a difference. We're way
past that point, we know. But at the
time, you know, I think we were having
to do a puzzle in front of everyone and
um I think one of the moments that made
me totally feel the AGI is like um we
were in the middle of the demo and
everyone started laughing and I was
like, "Wait, what what is funny?" And
then I stared at the screen because we
were showing this chain of thought as it
was streaming out of the model. Um and
the model swore and said like, "Oh, damn
it. May I have to adjust because I
realized I had made a mistake in the
puzzle." And uh the fact that they did
that, but in particular the fact that it
did that in a way that was entirely
emergent from the you know RL process
completely blew my mind um and you know
made me you know um uh feel quite humble
about what else these models might be
able to do. So um that was one of those
moments.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and then most recently watching
people use codecs like like watching
people have
>> walk around with their computer open uh
because they don't want the task to end.
Um yeah uh watching people who have
never coded in their life make stuff and
bring ideas uh to life that feel feels
like an AGM. So honestly it just it's
just accelerating for me and it doesn't
wear off at all. Um and uh everyone has
a different thing obviously but those
are were some of mine.
>> Yeah. You know it's uh 10 years ago
there was a product called kite. I don't
know if you remember it was for software
engineers. It was like an AI coding
product. Mhm.
>> That's when I that's when I felt the
hunger for for for for for personal AI
and you know nothing happened for 10
years and then everything happened in
the last 10 months.
>> The timing thing is really hard because
it's it's actually quite
>> possible to predict where things will
end up I think um in terms of the kind
of product form factors you're going to
have but to know when it happens it's
really hard for me to make statements on
anything between
>> sort of eventually and in three months.
>> Yeah. because of all the ambiguity
around, you know, um um
>> well, that's a tight enough window, you
know, now and three months is a tight
enough window.
>> Three months is pretty pretty okay. Try
to stick to the three-month plan more or
less. Um um though, you know, my team
would probably tell me we don't, but I I
try. But yeah, anything in between three
months and eventually is is is
difficult. Um
>> yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, thanks for doing
it. You've got a lot going on. This was
a total treat. We so excited to see all
the great products you release for us.
Um,
we can do anything to be of help, let us
know.
>> Awesome. Thanks very much. Thanks for
having me.
>> Of course, man. This was fun.
As a reminder to everybody, just our
opinions, not investment advice.